---
title: "Intro"
description: "A little bit about this site's early days"
date: 7 August 2025
published: true
---
Welcome!

This is a place where I intend to upload my thoughts on the sports travels I make. It's something I've been doing for a while, but have only recently decided to make its own blog/site.

However, a lot of the trip reports I currently have are from before I set this up. Therefore, I'm going to do one a day until I've caught up, so to speak. I'm going to start with the series of baseball stadiums I visited this year (for games), and then I've got some other things. Of course, there's a possibility of me making stadium/game visits while I go through these archives, but I'll let you know if those occur (i.e. if you DON'T see a note in italics at the beginning of a post, it's current.)

Each of these 2025 posts has a similar setup: a bit about the team, a bit about the stadium, my general thoughts, a small detail about the game, and a section devoted to merchandise. I'll be honest: merch is one of the main reasons I make these trips as I'm a sports memoribilia collector, so that's usually where I go "in depth", so to speak.

I also have some even deeper "archives" of content from previous years, so I'll probably put those in as I see fit.

(Finally, you'll have to excuse the look of the site for now - I copied this from my own personal blog which kinda looks like a newspaper, and I'm working on creating a new layout for this page.)

### DUE UP:

Baseball in a highly controversial town near a major tourist attraction - in the wrong season.
