---

title: "Vermont Green FC (USL League 2) @ Virtue Field"
description: "Dusting off an old post for some special reasons"
date: 21 August 2025
published: false
---

*\*This is something I’ve had in my notes app for YEARS, but never did anything with (this trip occurred on June 24, 2023). With the NCAA soccer season starting today (according to Google) and the Green having just won the USL2 national championship, I figured this’d be something fun to read/post. It’s LARGELY unedited from when I left it in 2023, but I did feel a few updates were needed (plus an obligatory merch section)*

There are many collegiate summer leagues for college baseball across America, but I tend to follow three in particular as they’re exclusively based in the six New England States: the Cape Cod Baseball League, the New England Collegiate Baseball League, and the Futures League.

In 2021, I visited all ten teams of the Cape League plus one other team in Worcester, MA. The following year - now living in Massachusetts and with a job - I visited more teams from the other two leagues, but not all. After that, I decided that the next year (2023), I’d visit all 32 teams.

I eagerly awaited the three leagues to release their schedules, and when they did, two things happened:

1. I found out one team from the NECBL folded (RIP Winnipesaukee Muskrats - fun fact: I was at their final game)
2. I began planning out travel schedules for the summer - trying to line up teams that were geographically close to each other so I could visit both on the same day

As part of that second point, I knew that planning out certain visits would definitely be interesting, but one state would be the most daunting for me: Vermont.

Three teams call the state of Vermont home: one in White River Junction (the Upper Valley Nighthawks), and the other two in Montpelier (the Vermont Mountaineers) and Burlington (the Vermont Lake Monsters). The capital and largest city of Vermont (respectively) are about 30-40ish minutes from each other…but north of 3 hours from where I lived at the time*. Plus, with games starting around 6 PM and the prospect of driving home on unlit, winding mountain roads while dead tired, a single day trip to and from is pretty much impossible to do; you really have to spend the night somewhere close.

Here’s the thing: hotels in Vermont ain’t cheap. I tried to look at hotels for the trip and found that most hotels were at least $200 a night. I brought up that I wanted to go to Vermont with my parents, and they mentioned that they wanted to go there too (they had planned a vacation with my mom’s cousin), but the weekends wouldn’t really line up plus, again, hotel prices. We ended up lucking out however: my dad found an inexpensive interval unit somewhere between the two cities for a week. Originally, I planned on only being there for a few days; however, I decided that the time in Vermont was too good to pass up (save for leaving on Friday so I could do other things on Saturday), so I arranged to spend the entire week at the hotel/unit.

As the trip approached, I noticed that a potential issue came up: the weather. I’m a bit of a weather geek, so I would check the forecasts to see what weather to expect…and the theme of the week was going to be rain literally the whole week. Baseball games cannot be played in the rain, so my goals of visiting the teams I wanted to see were in jeopardy.

The day I left for Vermont, guess what happened? 

It rained!

I found out early in the morning that the Mountaineers had cancelled their game, so I figured I’d just go to Burlington to see the Lake Monsters - after all, they seemed like they wanted to soldier on with their game. I made my way to Burlington, trying to check for updates from the Lake Monsters regarding their game. Eventually, I found out that the game had been postponed…when I was almost to Burlington and well past where I was staying.

You might be expecting me to simply turn around, go check in at the unit, figure out a place to get dinner, and then discuss the next day when “better” weather plus a Lake Monsters doubleheader on Sunday allowed me to visit both the Lake Monsters and Mountaineers on the same day. Here’s the thing, though: this story is not about baseball.

It’s about association football (commonly referred to in the United States as soccer), because as it turns out, there’s a soccer team in Burlington: Vermont Green FC. They’re in what’s considered the fourth level of soccer in the US, and many of their players are collegiate athletes looking to keep their legs fresh for the upcoming fall NCAA season. However, the team is probably more notable for the culture they’ve created: their main motto is “Climate Justice is Social Justice”. This is also reflected in their supporters group 

When I first heard about Vermont Green from an email from the Men in Blazers, I immediately checked if they’d be home when I was in Vermont, and lo and behold, they were! I had to rearrange the schedule I had made a bit, but committing to being in Vermont the whole week made it much easier. However, nervousness about the super rainy forecast made me question whether I still wanted to check out the Green, since I really wanted to prioritize the baseball teams. When both teams cancelled their games, however, I figured that since soccer games rarely get cancelled by rain, watching the Green would be a “safe bet”. However, I wasn’t sure if I really wanted to spend two hours in the elements, so I remained indecisive before eventually deciding to see what a soccer game was like - after all, the last time I had attended a soccer game, I was seven years old and playing in it!

It was still pouring when I arrived and made the genius decision to park on the roof of the nearby parking garage (I was able to move my car, however, as I arrived well over an hour before game time). A game between (more) amateur teams from Vermont and New Hampshire was going on when I arrived, and I watched the end of that from a nearby sidewalk with a giant overhang protecting spectators from the rain. When the time for the “big game” came up, I ended up spending most of the hour between the gates opening and the match starting under the bleachers to get some cover from the rain before opening the umbrella I had brought and moving up to the stands to see the match.

I spent most of the first half standing very close to the “hardcore” supporters’ section (thankfully, I bought a shirt and scarf before the game to “blend in”). They were what you’d expect from soccer fans: loud, rowdy, and having a great time (they were constantly trying to chat up one of the opposing players and even tricked him into “claiming” his teammate was bad). During the game, the PA announcer did more than just announce who scored goals and who was being subbed on/off: he occasionally did some play-by-play of the game action, and to be fair to just about everything else…he’s the best part of the game BY FAR.

By about halftime, it stopped raining. I thought about putting my umbrella and jacket away but didn’t want to miss too much (though in retrospect I totally should have). The Green ended up winning the game, and afterwards, fans were allowed onto the field to mingle with the team (something which is really awesome IMO).

While the Vermont Green was definitely a fun experience, I learned after my vacation that it’s probably the best experience in their division by many, MANY miles. I tried going to another game in the same division about a week later, and it was basically the complete opposite of what the experience was in Vermont. The best part about it was that I got in for free…because nothing was being sold: no tickets, no food, and no merchandise. Also, there were probably less than 50 spectators at the game, and I use the term “spectators” because I’m pretty sure most of them were there to support individual players as opposed to the team as a whole.

As an after script to my trip, in the first three years of the club’s existence, they finished third each year. Two of those years saw the team make the playoffs, but both playoff runs ended in the round of 16. However, in 2025, they put it all together - winning the USL2 National Championship without losing a game in the process (something that hadn’t happened since 2010). The championship game - played at Virtue Field - is estimated to have drawn almost 5,000 fans - double the number of seats available. In addition, the success of the Green has spilled into the UVM men's soccer team - who won the NCAA championship nine months prior to the Green's triumph - as I saw a report that their ticket sales had picked up.

### MERCH
One of the founders of Vermont Green is a well known graphic designer for his work with sport teams (his most notable work being the current look of the Minnesota Twins). Each year, he designs a new jersey for the team to wear for most of their matches (as few of their opponents wear green), and it's usually VERY good.

When I first thought about making this trip, I looked into buying a shirt online and was slightly saddened to find out that their 2023 jersey - widely regarded as one of the most unique shirts EVER in soccer - was sold out. I ended up getting a cream colored jersey with green sleeves and a collar (which I'm fairly sure the team no longer sells) plus a scarf (a common accessory worn at soccer matches).

At the match, I lucked out: the team had just restocked their primary shirt, and I ended up getting it plus one of their training shirts (as they feature Ben and Jerry's on the front), as well as a hat and a scarf. 

If you're ever in Burlington and are looking to snag some Vermont Green merch, there's a store in the area run by someone who has played for the team in recent seasons (I visited once and got another scarf and training shirt, as the shirts change each year). Just be forewarned, however: with the team SOARING in popularity, he's had trouble keeping things on the shelves**...

### ON DECK:
One of the most significant cities in the current scope of Minor League Baseball.
___
*I was living near Boston at the time, but have since moved to New Jersey

**Case in point: I was looking for the team's 2024 shirt when I visited, but they didn't have it in my size